docs/Macros.md, before:

# Writing an NUXBT Macro

### Basic Macro script

Every macro script is composed of Button/Stick input followed by a set duration. Here is a sample of this.

```
B 0.1s
```

The above macro is setting the B button to be pressed for 0.1s (0.1 seconds).

Oftentimes you'll need gaps between your inputs when no buttons should be pressed. This is easily scripted by making a new line and inserting a new time.

```
B 0.1s
1s
```

This is effectively a single B button press. NUXBT will then wait 1 second before moving to the next action.

### Advanced Macros

To set multiple inputs simultaneously, we write our inputs on the same line, separated by a space, followed by the duration. This is how our script looks now.

```
A B 0.5s
B 0.1s
0.1s
```

First, This new macro has both the A and B buttons pressed for 0.5s. Next, the A button is released and the B button continues to be held for an additional 0.1s. Finally, no buttons are pressed for 0.1s.

The above macros deal with only button-based input. A stick input example follows:

```
L_STICK@-100+000 0.75s
1.0s
```

Above, we're setting the left analog stick to 100% in the left horizontal direction. To explain, analog stick positions are composed of two values: an X position and a Y position. You can think of both as positions on a traditional X/Y plane, with X being the horizontal component and Y being the vertical component. An X/Y of 0/0 means that the analog stick is in a neutral position (no input), while an X/Y position of 0/100 means our stick is tilted 100% up.

<div align="center">
  <img src="img/pro-controller-stick-axis.jpg" width="300">
</div>

To be clear, the first numeric argument after L_STICK@ is the X value and the second is the Y value. Eg: An X value of 50 and a Y Value of 25 on the right stick would be `R_STICK@+050+025`.

As such, a neutral stick position is as follows:

```
L_STICK@+000+000 0.75s
1.0s
```


Remember, each X and Y value must be 3 digits. If you want to tilt the Right Thumbstick 75% to the left, you must write it as `R_STICK@-075+000`. Another thing to keep in mind, the sum of your X and Y can be more than 100. For example, `L_STICK@+100+100` is a 45° angle. 


### Loops

A simple for-loop can be used to repeat a macro block a specified number of times. The below example loops through an indented macro block 100 times.

```
LOOP 100
    B 0.1s
    0.1s
```

Nested loops are also supported.

```
LOOP 100
    B 0.1s
    0.1s
    # Nested loop
    LOOP 5
        A 0.1s
        0.1s
```

Note, a macro line starting with `#` is ignored.

## Macro Control Values

| Macro Value | Control Name |
--- | ---
Y | Y Button
X | X Button
B | B Button
A | A Button
JCL_SR | Left Joy-Con SR
JCL_SL | Left Joy-Con SL
R | Upper Right Shoulder Trigger
ZR | Lower Right Shoulder Trigger
MINUS | Minus Button
PLUS | Plus Button
R_STICK_PRESS | Right Stick Press
L_STICK_PRESS | Left Stick Press
HOME | Home Button
CAPTURE | Capture Button
DPAD_DOWN | Down Button on the DPad
DPAD_UP | Up Button on the DPad
DPAD_RIGHT | Right Button on the DPad
DPAD_LEFT | Left Button on the DPad
JCR_SR | Right Joy-Con SR
JCR_SL | Right Joy-Con SL
L | Upper Left Shoulder Trigger
ZL | Lower Left Should Trigger

Commit message:

feat(macros): Allow written macros to hold inputs
Held inputs stay held down until nested inputs are completed

Holds work within loops, both written and with the loop settings of the webapp

docs/Macros.md, after:

# Writing an NUXBT Macro

### Basic Macro script

Every macro script is composed of Button/Stick input followed by a set duration. Here is a sample of this.

```
B 0.1s
```

The above macro is setting the B button to be pressed for 0.1s (0.1 seconds).

Oftentimes you'll need gaps between your inputs when no buttons should be pressed. This is easily scripted by making a new line and inserting a new time.

```
B 0.1s
1s
```

This is effectively a single B button press. NUXBT will then wait 1 second before moving to the next action.

### Advanced Macros

To set multiple inputs simultaneously, we write our inputs on the same line, separated by a space, followed by the duration. This is how our script looks now.

```
A B 0.5s
B 0.1s
0.1s
```

First, This new macro has both the A and B buttons pressed for 0.5s. Next, the A button is released and the B button continues to be held for an additional 0.1s. Finally, no buttons are pressed for 0.1s.

The above macros deal with only button-based input. A stick input example follows:

```
L_STICK@-100+000 0.75s
1.0s
```

Above, we're setting the left analog stick to 100% in the left horizontal direction. To explain, analog stick positions are composed of two values: an X position and a Y position. You can think of both as positions on a traditional X/Y plane, with X being the horizontal component and Y being the vertical component. An X/Y of 0/0 means that the analog stick is in a neutral position (no input), while an X/Y position of 0/100 means our stick is tilted 100% up.

<div align="center">
  <img src="img/pro-controller-stick-axis.jpg" width="300">
</div>

To be clear, the first numeric argument after L_STICK@ is the X value and the second is the Y value. Eg: An X value of 50 and a Y Value of 25 on the right stick would be `R_STICK@+050+025`.

As such, a neutral stick position is as follows:

```
L_STICK@+000+000 0.75s
1.0s
```


Remember, each X and Y value must be 3 digits. If you want to tilt the Right Thumbstick 75% to the left, you must write it as `R_STICK@-075+000`. Another thing to keep in mind, the sum of your X and Y can be more than 100. For example, `L_STICK@+100+100` is a 45° angle. 


### Loops

A simple for-loop can be used to repeat a macro block a specified number of times. The below example loops through an indented macro block 100 times.

```
LOOP 100
    B 0.1s
    0.1s
```

Nested loops are also supported.

```
LOOP 100
    B 0.1s
    0.1s
    # Nested loop
    LOOP 5
        A 0.1s
        0.1s

### Holding Inputs

The `HOLD` keyword allows you to hold a specific input (like a button or stick) while executing a block of other macro commands. This is useful for actions that require holding a button down while performing other actions.

```
HOLD DPAD_DOWN
    A 0.1s
    0.1s
```

In the example above, `DPAD_DOWN` is held down while `A` is pressed for 0.1s, and then `DPAD_DOWN` continues to be held for another 0.1s.

Nested holds are also supported:

```
HOLD ZL
    HOLD ZR
        A 0.1s
```

This holds both ZL and ZR while pressing A.
```

Note, a macro line starting with `#` is ignored.

## Macro Control Values

| Macro Value | Control Name |
--- | ---
Y | Y Button
X | X Button
B | B Button
A | A Button
JCL_SR | Left Joy-Con SR
JCL_SL | Left Joy-Con SL
R | Upper Right Shoulder Trigger
ZR | Lower Right Shoulder Trigger
MINUS | Minus Button
PLUS | Plus Button
R_STICK_PRESS | Right Stick Press
L_STICK_PRESS | Left Stick Press
HOME | Home Button
CAPTURE | Capture Button
DPAD_DOWN | Down Button on the DPad
DPAD_UP | Up Button on the DPad
DPAD_RIGHT | Right Button on the DPad
DPAD_LEFT | Left Button on the DPad
JCR_SR | Right Joy-Con SR
JCR_SL | Right Joy-Con SL
L | Upper Left Shoulder Trigger
ZL | Lower Left Should Trigger
